In this lecture, you'll learn about the Setup Wizard for our routers and switches.
I'm using the same lab setup again,
where I've got R1, which is going to have IP address 192.168.0.1 on
interface FastEthernet0/0. We're going to use that as a management IP address. And we've got SW1
which is going to have management IP address 192.168.0.10 on the VLAN 1 SVI,
and SW1 is connected to R1 with interface FastEthernet0/1.
So, let's
have a look at this in the lab.
So this is what you'll see when you first take a router out of the box, power it on, and hook up a
console cable. When it's brand new from the factory,
it will automatically open up with the System Configuration Dialog.
Also, if you factory reset the router, next time you boot it up,
this is how it will look when you boot it up.
Now, I've cheated a little bit here. You notice that I already had the router setup already. So, another
way that you can invoke the Setup Wizard is at the enable prompt, you can use the command 'setup'. So you
see, that's what I've done here,
and when you enter 'setup', it will show you the prompt here, the System Configuration Dialog.
"Do you want to continue with the configuration dialog?"
This is what you'll see, the message down at the bottom here, when the router is first time out of
the box, brandnew from the factory.
So, you can use this to do the initial setup of the router.
Basically, all it is going to do is put a hostname on there and configure an IP address for management.
To be honest, I've never actually seen anybody use this in the real world.
Everybody will always just break out of here by entering 'no', and then configure the router or the switch manually.
But you might be tested on this on the CCNA exam, so I'll show you how to do it anyway.
Real world, you're probably never going to use this.
Okay, so we are going to use it here.
So, I'll enter 'yes' to
continue with the configuration dialog. It then tells me it's going to do a basic setup of the system.
"Would I like to enter the basic management setup?"
I'll say 'yes'. It then asks me for the hostname. I'll name this router R1. It then asks for an enable
secret.
This is a secret password, which is encrypted, that is going to be required to get into the enable prompt.
It's best practice to enable one of these.
We didn't do it in the last lecture because I'm going to show you when I show you how to secure a
router in a later lecture. So for the enable secret, I'll use Flackbox1.
Next, it'll ask me for an enable password.
This is basically the same thing, but the enable password is not encrypted, so it's not actually used.
But the Setup Wizard are still going to ask me to enter one
anyway, so I'll use Flackbox2 for that.
Then, it asks me for a virtual terminal password.
This is the password that's going to be used for incoming Telnet or SSH sessions when I'm doing remote
management over the router to the IP address. So, I'll put another password in here.
Okay, so that's my passwords entered. Next it will ask if I want to configure SNMP, the Simple Network Management
Protocol, I'll say 'no'.
I could configure this later if I wanted to.
It will then show me the interfaces on this router and asks me which one I want to use for the management
interface. So, I will choose interface FastEthernet0/0. When I choose this, this is the one
that is going to be enabled for remote management access.
It asks, "Do I want to operate in full-duplex mode?"
Yes, I do.
Do I want to configure IP on this interface?
Yes, I'm going to need to so that I've got an IP address to connect to for management. So I'll say 'yes',
and I'll use 192.168.0.1.
It will default to the Class C subnet mask 255.255.255.0
When you see an answer in brackets, it means that's the default, and you can just hit enter to accept that.
It saves me having to type in 255.255.255.0 myself.
It will then show me a summary of the commands that will be entered.
So I see that it is going to enter the hostname R1, it's going to configure the IP address on interface
FastEthernet0/0, and no shutdown. And if I scroll down to the bottom, it will ask me if I want to
save the config. It gives me the option to break out to the normal command prompt without saving
or to go back to the start of the Setup Wizard if I made a mistake in one of my entries, or number 2
is going to save the config and exit. So I will hit 2, and that is the Setup Wizard completed on R1.
Let's
also do it on SW1. So I've got another tab open for SW1, and I'll go at the enable prompt
and 'setup' to invoke the Setup Wizard.
"Do I want to configure the configuration dialog?"
'Yes', very similar
on SW1 as well. "Do I want to enter basic management setup?"
'Yes'. Enter the hostname.
I'll call this SW1. I'll use the enable secret, I'll enter that, and also an enable password, the virtual
terminal password for Telnet access.
"Do I want to configure SNMP?"
Not for now.
It will show me the interfaces and this is a Layer 2 switch,
so I need to configure it on the SVI for VLAN 1.
"Do I want to configure IP?"
'Yes', I'll need that to allow remote management, and the IP address was 192.168.0.10, subnet mask
defaults to 255.255.255.0.
That's fine.
"Do I want to enable this as a cluster command switch?"
'No', this is not a cluster switch.
I'll say 'no' to that.
It then shows me a summary of the commands that are going to be entered.
I can see I've got my management IP address there on VLAN 1, and that is the Setup Wizard completed again.
It's number 2 to save and exit.
And to test this, I should be able to ping the router now
at 192.168.0.1. That works great,
okay, so good.
Something you may have noticed it did not prompt me for a default gateway, so it's not going to be able
to get out to other subnets yet. So I'll enter global configuration, and 'ip default-gateway
192.168.0.1'. Okay, that's it done. That's the Setup Wizard completed.
I'll end out there, and to test that management access works, let's try 'telnet 192.168.0.1'.
That looks good, I'm getting the password prompt, so I'll enter what I set as the password, and I've now
got a prompt. I've remotely telneted into R1 for management. Okay, that's everything I needed to show
you there.
That's the Setup Wizard. Again, real world, you're not ever going to use this, but it's there if you ever want
to.